Clarify workload identifier and add security considerations (#286)
ietf-wg-wimse/draft-ietf-wimse-s2s-protocol: draft-ietf-wimse-workload-creds.md

The Workload Identifier is a URI and its baseline syntax and processing requirements are defined in {{!WIMSE-ID=I-D.ietf-wimse-identifier}}.
While deployments define how they assign identifiers and what the path portion means, implementations MUST enforce the URI requirements outlined in {{Section 4.1 of WIMSE-ID}}.

> Prior to WIMSE, many containerized runtime platforms could not authenticate a peer as a specific workload;

Reviewer: I think this context/motivation is important.

Author: I'm not sure I agree with that statement though. It's also that we don't really solve the problem. The mapping between location identifier and workload identifier is out of scope.

Reviewer 2: Similar to https://github.com/ietf-wg-wimse/draft-ietf-wimse-s2s-protocol/pull/267#discussion_r3595285661 and #272 which it begat, I tend to agree with @arndt-s here.

> A Workload Identifier is generally not a name that a client dials. Clients reach a workload through an external access name,

Reviewer 2: I realize the wording is difficult (see the terrible words in my suggestion below) but I think "dials" might be a little too colloquial for a document that aspires to be an RFC. 

```suggestion
A Workload Identifier is generally not a name that a client uses to initiate invocation of a service. Clients reach a workload through an external access name,
```

such as a DNS name or a Kubernetes Service or Ingress host, while the authority component of a Workload Identifier is a
trust domain rather than a resolvable host. Validating a peer's credential against the trust anchors of its trust domain
({{trust-anchors}}) therefore establishes only that the peer holds a credential issued within that domain, not that it is
the workload the client intended to reach.

> To authenticate a specific peer, a client MUST compare the Workload Identifier in the presented credential against the

Reviewer: In the case of WPT, most of the authentication happens on the *server* side, by (1) validating the incoming WIT/WPT and (2) verifying the audience.

identifier it expects for the workload it is calling; successful trust anchor validation alone MUST NOT be treated as

> authentication of that workload (see {{trust-domain-membership}} for security considerations). This requires a mapping from

Reviewer: My proposed text avoids the "mapping" notion (which is hard to define precisely) and instead focuses on the information that needs to be available to the endpoints so that each of them can enforce its security requirements.

The Workload Identifier is a URI and its baseline syntax and processing requirements are defined in {{!WIMSE-ID=I-D.ietf-wimse-identifier}}.
While deployments define how they assign identifiers and what the path portion means, implementations MUST enforce the URI requirements outlined in {{Section 4.1 of WIMSE-ID}}.

> Prior to WIMSE, many containerized runtime platforms could not authenticate a peer as a specific workload;  

Reviewer 2: I am not well versed in containerized runtime platforms but this sentence and the paragraph below were the impetus for #272.

Author: This PR doesn't target #272 anymore, see #246

Reviewer 2: I have seen #246 (more than I care for) and it also doesn't address #272.

When a deployment uses the `iss` claim for key distribution as described in {{wit-iss-note}}, validators MUST enforce an allowlist of accepted issuers. Absent such a restriction, any entity could stand up an issuer, present a WIT with that issuer's `iss` value, and have it accepted by a validator that fetches and trusts the corresponding key material without verifying the issuer's legitimacy.

## Trust Domain Membership and Peer Authentication {#trust-domain-membership}

A workload that validates its peer's credential against the trust anchors for a trust domain and then stops has learned only that its peer belongs to that trust domain. It has not learned which workload the peer is. {{granular-auth}} requires the comparison that closes this gap.

Without that comparison, every workload in the trust domain looks the same. Any workload holding a valid credential can be accepted in place of any other, so an attacker who compromises one workload gains the access of all of them, even if the workload they compromised had little access of its own. A credential issued by mistake, or one belonging to a workload that no longer exists, can be used in the same way until it expires.

> Both sides of a call are affected. A client that does not check which workload it reached can be tricked into sending its requests, along with its own credential and proof of possession, to a workload the attacker controls in the same trust domain. A receiving application that only checks trust domain membership gives every workload in the domain the access it meant to give to one.

Reviewer: I would add a comment at the end of this paragraph that the exact security properties (who authenticates whom etc.) are dependent on the WIMSE mechanism being used (MTLS vs. http-sig vs. WPT).

Author: I don't think proof of possession matters here. It's generic, no matter what PoP mechanism is used.

> Proof of possession does not help here. It shows that the peer holds the private key for the credential it presented ({{wit-pop}}). It does not show that this credential is the one the peer was supposed to present. The same is true when a Workload Identity Certificate is used at the transport layer.

Reviewer: I disagree with this paragraph. Take the (reasonable) assumptions that the credential was correctly issued (that the workload possessed the private key at that time), *and* that private keys are hard to steal. Then the PoP does show that the credential is correct.

Author: This section is about situations where a peer only validates a credential against the trust domain anchor and basically ignores the identifier for access control. Every workload will be the same.
